---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# about this book

*AI Agents in Action* is about building and working with intelligent agent systems—not just creating autonomous entities but also developing agents that can effectively tackle and solve real-world problems. The book starts with the basics of working with large language models (LLMs) to build assistants, multi-agent systems, and agentic behavioral agents. From there, it explores the key components of agentic systems: retrieval systems for knowledge and memory augmentation, action and tool usage, reasoning, planning, evaluation, and feedback. The book demonstrates how these components empower agents to perform a wide range of complex tasks through practical examples.

This journey isn’t just about technology; it’s about reimagining how we approach problem solving. I hope this book inspires you to see intelligent agents as partners in innovation, capable of transforming ideas into actions in ways that were once thought impossible. Together, we’ll explore how AI can augment human potential, enabling us to achieve far more than we could alone.

## Who should read this book

This book is for anyone curious about intelligent agents and how to develop agentic systems—whether you’re building your first helpful assistant or diving deeper into complex multi-agent systems. No prior experience with agents, agentic systems, prompt engineering, or working with LLMs is required. All you need is a basic understanding of Python and familiarity with GitHub repositories. My goal is to make these concepts accessible and engaging, empowering anyone who wants to explore the world of AI agents to do so with confidence.

Whether you’re a developer, researcher, or hobbyist or are simply intrigued by the possibilities of AI, this book is for you. I hope that in these pages you’ll find inspiration, practical guidance, and a new appreciation for the remarkable potential of intelligent agents. Let this book guide understanding, creating, and unleashing the power of AI agents in action.

## How this book is organized: A road map

This book has 11 chapters. Chapter 1, “Introduction to agents and their world,” begins by laying a foundation with fundamental definitions of large language models, chat systems, assistants, and autonomous agents. As the book progresses, the discussion shifts to the key components that make up an agent and how these components work together to create truly effective systems. Here is a quick summary of chapters 2 through 11:

- *Chapter 2, “Harnessing the power of large language models”*—We start by exploring how to use commercial LLMs, such as OpenAI. We then examine tools, such as LM Studio, that provide the infrastructure and support for running various open source LLMs, enabling anyone to experiment and innovate.
- *Chapter 3, “Engaging GPT assistants”* —This chapter dives into the capabilities of the GPT Assistants platform from OpenAI. Assistants are foundational agent types, and we explore how to create practical and diverse assistants, from culinary helpers to intern data scientists and even a book learning assistant.
- *Chapter 4, “Exploring multi-agent systems”* —Agentic tools have advanced significantly quickly. Here, we explore two sophisticated multi-agent systems: CrewAI and AutoGen. We demonstrate AutoGen’s ability to develop code autonomously and see how CrewAI can bring together a group of joke researchers to create humor collaboratively.
- *Chapter 5, “Empowering agents with actions”* —Actions are fundamental to any agentic system. This chapter discusses how agents can use tools and functions to execute actions, ranging from database and application programming interface (API) queries to generating images. We focus on enabling agents to take meaningful actions autonomously.
- *Chapter 6, “Building autonomous assistants”* —We explore the behavior tree—a staple in robotics and game systems—as a mechanism to orchestrate multiple coordinated agents. We’ll use behavior trees to tackle challenges such as code competitions and social media content creation.
- *Chapter 7, “Assembling and using an agent platform”* —This chapter introduces Nexus, a sophisticated platform for orchestrating multiple agents and LLMs. We discuss how Nexus facilitates agentic workflows and enables complex interactions between agents, providing an example of a fully functioning multi-agent environment.
- *Chapter 8, “Understanding agent memory and knowledge”* —Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has become an essential tool for extending the capabilities of LLM agents. This chapter explores how retrieval mechanisms can serve as both a source of knowledge by processing ingested files, and of memory, allowing agents to recall previous interactions or events.
- *Chapter 9, “Mastering agent prompts with prompt flow”* —Prompt engineering is central to an agent’s success. This chapter introduces prompt flow, a tool from Microsoft that helps automate the testing and evaluation of prompts, enabling more robust and effective agentic behavior.
- *Chapter 10, “Agent reasoning and evaluation ”*—Reasoning is crucial to solving problems intelligently. In this chapter, we explore various reasoning techniques, such as chain of thought (CoT), and show how agents can evaluate reasoning strategies even during inference, improving their capacity to solve problems autonomously.
- *Chapter 11, “Agent planning and feedback”* —Planning is perhaps an agent’s most critical skill in achieving its goals. We discuss how agents can incorporate planning to navigate complex tasks and how feedback loops can be used to refine those plans. The chapter concludes by integrating all the key components—actions, memory and knowledge, reasoning, evaluation, planning, and feedback—into practical examples of agentic systems that solve real-world problems.

## About the code

The code for this book is spread across several open source projects, many of which are hosted by me or by other organizations in GitHub repositories. Throughout this book, I strive to make the content as accessible as possible, taking a low-code approach to help you focus on core concepts. Many chapters demonstrate how simple prompts can generate meaningful code, showcasing the power of AI-assisted development.

Additionally, you’ll find a variety of assistant profiles and multi-agent systems that demonstrate how to solve real-world problems using generated code. These examples are meant to inspire, guide, and empower you to explore what is possible with AI agents. I am deeply grateful to the many contributors and the community members who have collaborated on these projects, and I encourage you to explore the repositories, experiment with the code, and adapt it to your own needs. This book is a testament to the power of collaboration and the incredible things we can achieve together.

This book contains many examples of source code both in numbered listings and in line with normal text. In both cases, source code is formatted in a `fixed-width` `font like` `this` to separate it from ordinary text. Sometimes, some of the code is typeset **`in`** **`bold`** to highlight code that has changed from previous steps in the chapter, such as when a feature is added to an existing line of code. In many cases, the original source code has been reformatted; we’ve added line breaks and reworked indentation to accommodate the available page space in the book. In some cases, even this wasn’t enough, and listings include line-continuation markers (↪). Additionally, comments in the source code have often been removed from the listings when the code is described in the text. Code annotations accompany many of the listings, highlighting important concepts.

You can get executable snippets of code from the liveBook (online) version of this book at [https://livebook.manning.com/book/ai-agents-in-action](https://livebook.manning.com/book/ai-agents-in-action). The complete code for the examples in the book is available for download from the Manning website at [www.manning.com/books/ai-agents-in-action](http://www.manning.com/books/ai-agents-in-action). In addition, the code developed for this book has been placed in three GitHub repositories that are all publicly accessible:

- GPT-Agents (the original book title), at [https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/GPT-Agents](https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/GPT-Agents), holds the code for several examples demonstrated in the chapters.
- GPT Assistants Playground, at [https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/GPTAssistantsPlayground](https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/GPTAssistantsPlayground), is an entire platform and tool dedicated to building OpenAI GPT assistants with a helpful web user interface and plenty of tools to develop autonomous agent systems.
- Nexus, at [https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/Nexus](https://github.com/cxbxmxcx/Nexus), is an example of a web-based agentic tool that can help you create agentic systems and demonstrate various code challenges.

## liveBook discussion forum

Purchase of *AI Agents in Action* includes free access to liveBook, Manning’s online reading platform. Using liveBook’s exclusive discussion features, you can attach comments to the book globally or to specific sections or paragraphs. It’s a snap to make notes for yourself, ask and answer technical questions, and receive help from the author and other users. To access the forum, go to [https://livebook.manning.com/book/ai-agents-in-action/discussion](https://livebook.manning.com/book/ai-agents-in-action/discussion). You can also learn more about Manning’s forums and the rules of conduct at [https://livebook.manning.com/discussion](https://livebook.manning.com/discussion).

Manning’s commitment to our readers is to provide a venue where a meaningful dialogue between individual readers and between readers and the author can take place. It isn’t a commitment to any specific amount of participation on the part of the author, whose contribution to the forum remains voluntary (and unpaid). We suggest you try asking the him challenging questions lest his interest stray! The forum and the archives of previous discussions will be accessible from the publisher’s website as long as the book is in print.
